README.md, before:

# QuantEdge: AI-Powered Trading Simulator

A production-ready, full-stack AI-powered quantitative trading simulator that predicts stock price movements using machine learning and executes simulated trades in real-time.

## 🚀 Features

- **Machine Learning Predictions**: LSTM neural network for price forecasting
- **Reinforcement Learning**: DQN/PPO agent for optimal trading decisions
- **Real-time Dashboard**: Modern React interface with live charts and analytics
- **Risk Management**: Position sizing, stop-loss, and portfolio optimization
- **Local-First**: Runs entirely on your laptop with SQLite database
- **Backtesting Engine**: Historical simulation with realistic costs
- **Technical Analysis**: RSI, MACD, Bollinger Bands, and more

## 📋 Requirements

- Docker & Docker Compose (recommended)
- **OR** Manual setup:
  - Python 3.9+
  - Node.js 18+
  - npm or yarn

## 🏃 Quick Start (Docker - Recommended)

### One-Command Setup

```bash
chmod +x setup.sh
./setup.sh
```

This will:
1. Create necessary directories
2. Set up environment configuration
3. Build Docker containers
4. Start all services

### Access the Application

- **Frontend Dashboard**: http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8000
- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8000/docs

### Managing Services

```bash
# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop services
docker-compose down

# Restart services
docker-compose restart

# Rebuild after code changes
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## 💻 Manual Setup (Without Docker)

### Backend Setup

Note: For the full stack (TensorFlow, pandas, stable-baselines3, etc.) we recommend using Python 3.11.
Some ML libraries and compiled extensions may not have prebuilt wheels for newer Python versions on Windows and can fail to build.

Full install (recommended if you need ML features):

```bash
cd backend
# Create virtual environment (use Python 3.11 for best compatibility)
python -m venv venv
# On Windows activate:
venv\Scripts\activate
# On Mac/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install full dependencies (may require build tools and compatible Python)
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Create directories
mkdir -p data/raw data/processed data/models logs

# Run the server
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

Lightweight local dev (fast path — no heavy ML builds):

If you get compilation errors (commonly with pandas or TensorFlow) you can use the lightweight requirement set which excludes heavy ML packages. This lets you run the API and UI for development and testing while deferring full ML installs.

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate   # on Windows
pip install -r requirements-lite.txt

# Create directories
mkdir -p data/raw data/processed data/models logs

# Run the server (ML endpoints will be unavailable until full deps are installed)
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
DATABASE_URL=sqlite+aiosqlite:///./data/quantedge.db
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
INITIAL_CAPITAL=1000000
CURRENCY=INR
CURRENCY_SYMBOL=₹
STOCK_EXCHANGE=NSE
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
quantedge/
├── backend/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── main.py              # FastAPI entry point
│   │   ├── api/                 # REST API endpoints
│   │   │   ├── health.py
│   │   │   ├── trading.py
│   │   │   ├── portfolio.py
│   │   │   ├── ml.py
│   │   │   └── data.py
│   │   ├── models/              # Database models
│   │   │   ├── stock_data.py
│   │   │   ├── trades.py
│   │   │   └── portfolio.py
│   │   ├── ml/                  # Machine learning
│   │   │   ├── lstm_predictor.py
│   │   │   └── rl_agent.py
│   │   ├── trading/             # Trading engine
│   │   │   └── engine.py
│   │   ├── data/                # Data collection
│   │   │   └── collector.py
│   │   └── database/            # Database setup
│   │       └── init_db.py
│   ├── data/                    # Local data storage
│   │   ├── raw/                 # Downloaded stock data
│   │   ├── processed/           # Processed features
│   │   └── models/              # Trained ML models
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   └── Dockerfile
├── frontend/                    # React TypeScript SPA
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   └── dashboard/       # Dashboard components
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── services/            # API integration
│   │   └── types/               # TypeScript types
│   ├── package.json
│   └── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── setup.sh
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### Health & Status
- `GET /api/health` - Health check
- `GET /api/status` - System status

### Trading
- `POST /api/trading/orders` - Create trading order
- `GET /api/trading/trades` - Get trade history
- `GET /api/trading/orders` - Get order history

### Portfolio
- `GET /api/portfolio/positions` - Current positions
- `GET /api/portfolio/performance` - Performance history
- `GET /api/portfolio/metrics` - Portfolio metrics

### Machine Learning
- `GET /api/ml/predictions/{symbol}` - Get predictions
- `GET /api/ml/signals` - Current trading signals
- `POST /api/ml/train/{model_type}` - Train ML model

### Data
- `GET /api/data/price/{symbol}` - Historical prices
- `POST /api/data/sync/{symbol}` - Sync stock data
- `GET /api/data/symbols` - Available symbols

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd backend
pytest

# Frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test
```

## 📊 Machine Learning Models

### LSTM Price Predictor
- **Input**: 15-day window of OHLCV + technical indicators
- **Output**: Next-day price prediction with confidence
- **Architecture**: Stacked LSTM with dropout layers

### RL Trading Agent
- **Algorithm**: PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization)
- **Actions**: BUY, SELL, HOLD
- **Reward**: Risk-adjusted portfolio returns

## 📈 Performance Metrics

The dashboard displays:
- Total P&L and percentage returns
- Sharpe Ratio (risk-adjusted returns)
- Sortino Ratio (downside risk)
- Maximum Drawdown
- Win Rate
- Active positions count

## 🔒 Risk Management

- Position sizing based on portfolio value
- Stop-loss and take-profit levels
- Maximum drawdown limits
- Commission and slippage simulation (0.1%)

## 🛠️ Development

### Adding New Symbols

Edit `backend/app/data/collector.py`:

```python
self.symbols = ["AAPL", "GOOGL", "MSFT", "TSLA", "AMZN", "YOUR_SYMBOL"]
```

### Training ML Models

```bash
# Access backend container
docker-compose exec backend python

# Run training script
from app.data.collector import DataCollector
from app.ml.lstm_predictor import LSTMPredictor

# Fetch data
collector = DataCollector()
data = collector.fetch_all_symbols()

# Train LSTM
predictor = LSTMPredictor()
# ... training code
```

## 📝 License

This project is for educational and portfolio purposes.

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a portfolio project, but suggestions are welcome!

## 📧 Contact

For questions or collaboration, please reach out via GitHub.

---

**Note**: This is a simulation tool for educational purposes. Do not use for actual trading without proper risk assessment and testing.

Commit message:

Update README with license, disclaimer, and contact info
Added disclaimer and improved contributing and contact sections.

README.md, after:

# QuantEdge: AI-Powered Trading Simulator

A production-ready, full-stack AI-powered quantitative trading simulator that predicts stock price movements using machine learning and executes simulated trades in real-time.

## 🚀 Features

- **Machine Learning Predictions**: LSTM neural network for price forecasting
- **Reinforcement Learning**: DQN/PPO agent for optimal trading decisions
- **Real-time Dashboard**: Modern React interface with live charts and analytics
- **Risk Management**: Position sizing, stop-loss, and portfolio optimization
- **Local-First**: Runs entirely on your laptop with SQLite database
- **Backtesting Engine**: Historical simulation with realistic costs
- **Technical Analysis**: RSI, MACD, Bollinger Bands, and more

## 📋 Requirements

- Docker & Docker Compose (recommended)
- **OR** Manual setup:
  - Python 3.9+
  - Node.js 18+
  - npm or yarn

## 🏃 Quick Start (Docker - Recommended)

### One-Command Setup

```bash
chmod +x setup.sh
./setup.sh
```

This will:
1. Create necessary directories
2. Set up environment configuration
3. Build Docker containers
4. Start all services

### Access the Application

- **Frontend Dashboard**: http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8000
- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8000/docs

### Managing Services

```bash
# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop services
docker-compose down

# Restart services
docker-compose restart

# Rebuild after code changes
docker-compose up -d --build
```

## 💻 Manual Setup (Without Docker)

### Backend Setup

Note: For the full stack (TensorFlow, pandas, stable-baselines3, etc.) we recommend using Python 3.11.
Some ML libraries and compiled extensions may not have prebuilt wheels for newer Python versions on Windows and can fail to build.

Full install (recommended if you need ML features):

```bash
cd backend
# Create virtual environment (use Python 3.11 for best compatibility)
python -m venv venv
# On Windows activate:
venv\Scripts\activate
# On Mac/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate

# Install full dependencies (may require build tools and compatible Python)
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Create directories
mkdir -p data/raw data/processed data/models logs

# Run the server
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

Lightweight local dev (fast path — no heavy ML builds):

If you get compilation errors (commonly with pandas or TensorFlow) you can use the lightweight requirement set which excludes heavy ML packages. This lets you run the API and UI for development and testing while deferring full ML installs.

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate   # on Windows
pip install -r requirements-lite.txt

# Create directories
mkdir -p data/raw data/processed data/models logs

# Run the server (ML endpoints will be unavailable until full deps are installed)
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### Environment Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
DATABASE_URL=sqlite+aiosqlite:///./data/quantedge.db
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:8000
INITIAL_CAPITAL=1000000
CURRENCY=INR
CURRENCY_SYMBOL=₹
STOCK_EXCHANGE=NSE
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
quantedge/
├── backend/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── main.py              # FastAPI entry point
│   │   ├── api/                 # REST API endpoints
│   │   │   ├── health.py
│   │   │   ├── trading.py
│   │   │   ├── portfolio.py
│   │   │   ├── ml.py
│   │   │   └── data.py
│   │   ├── models/              # Database models
│   │   │   ├── stock_data.py
│   │   │   ├── trades.py
│   │   │   └── portfolio.py
│   │   ├── ml/                  # Machine learning
│   │   │   ├── lstm_predictor.py
│   │   │   └── rl_agent.py
│   │   ├── trading/             # Trading engine
│   │   │   └── engine.py
│   │   ├── data/                # Data collection
│   │   │   └── collector.py
│   │   └── database/            # Database setup
│   │       └── init_db.py
│   ├── data/                    # Local data storage
│   │   ├── raw/                 # Downloaded stock data
│   │   ├── processed/           # Processed features
│   │   └── models/              # Trained ML models
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   └── Dockerfile
├── frontend/                    # React TypeScript SPA
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   └── dashboard/       # Dashboard components
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── services/            # API integration
│   │   └── types/               # TypeScript types
│   ├── package.json
│   └── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── setup.sh
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### Health & Status
- `GET /api/health` - Health check
- `GET /api/status` - System status

### Trading
- `POST /api/trading/orders` - Create trading order
- `GET /api/trading/trades` - Get trade history
- `GET /api/trading/orders` - Get order history

### Portfolio
- `GET /api/portfolio/positions` - Current positions
- `GET /api/portfolio/performance` - Performance history
- `GET /api/portfolio/metrics` - Portfolio metrics

### Machine Learning
- `GET /api/ml/predictions/{symbol}` - Get predictions
- `GET /api/ml/signals` - Current trading signals
- `POST /api/ml/train/{model_type}` - Train ML model

### Data
- `GET /api/data/price/{symbol}` - Historical prices
- `POST /api/data/sync/{symbol}` - Sync stock data
- `GET /api/data/symbols` - Available symbols

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd backend
pytest

# Frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test
```

## 📊 Machine Learning Models

### LSTM Price Predictor
- **Input**: 15-day window of OHLCV + technical indicators
- **Output**: Next-day price prediction with confidence
- **Architecture**: Stacked LSTM with dropout layers

### RL Trading Agent
- **Algorithm**: PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization)
- **Actions**: BUY, SELL, HOLD
- **Reward**: Risk-adjusted portfolio returns

## 📈 Performance Metrics

The dashboard displays:
- Total P&L and percentage returns
- Sharpe Ratio (risk-adjusted returns)
- Sortino Ratio (downside risk)
- Maximum Drawdown
- Win Rate
- Active positions count

## 🔒 Risk Management

- Position sizing based on portfolio value
- Stop-loss and take-profit levels
- Maximum drawdown limits
- Commission and slippage simulation (0.1%)

## 🛠️ Development

### Adding New Symbols

Edit `backend/app/data/collector.py`:

```python
self.symbols = ["AAPL", "GOOGL", "MSFT", "TSLA", "AMZN", "YOUR_SYMBOL"]
```

### Training ML Models

```bash
# Access backend container
docker-compose exec backend python

# Run training script
from app.data.collector import DataCollector
from app.ml.lstm_predictor import LSTMPredictor

# Fetch data
collector = DataCollector()
data = collector.fetch_all_symbols()

# Train LSTM
predictor = LSTMPredictor()
# ... training code
```

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

This is primarily a portfolio project, but contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

**Educational Purpose Only**: This is a simulation tool for learning and portfolio demonstration. Do not use for actual trading without:
- Proper risk assessment
- Regulatory compliance
- Extensive backtesting
- Professional financial advice


## 📧 Contact

For questions, suggestions, or collaboration opportunities:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Connect via GitHub profile

---

**Built with ❤️ as a portfolio project showcasing modern full-stack development**
